---
date: '2026-01-27'
draft: false 
title: 'Thinkpad adventure'
---

# Last year I joined the Thinkpad club

And it's because of my work computer. There's something about these laptops that you can't describe. Maybe it's the iconic looks? Maybe it's the small size and the big capabilities? 

<!--more-->

(See guys? You don't need to be anxious ;) )

# My devices
In the process I got myself 2 of them - one at the beginning of the year and the other at the end of it.
I sold the first one because my friend's computer broke and I didn't want to leave them without one. 
So I got myself an another, smaller one. 

It's a T14 Gen 1 with a touchscreen. It's a used one of course and has some case imperfections, but it works!! And is really fun to use!
Though I have no idea what people do with their computers where they get damaged as a result... Throw them at the wall or what??

Anyways - it has Linux installed, like it should. It's Fedora with GNOME.
I know that many people despise GNOME, and so did I. I came back to it after a few years and now I can't use anything else.
I had to do an OS reinstall and wanted to try KDE, but it and was so confusing to theme for me that I had to switch back to GNOME.

# OS differences
It's very interesting to me that after having used both Windows and MacOS, I actually like using Linux the most. And Windows is second. MacOS has very weird controls and keyboard shortcuts are even more confusing. You kind of can set them up as you want but if you do, it breaks something else. Theming is also very limited. Ironic that I say that while using GNOME, but at least it allows you to get free extensions, while for Mac they're either sussy or paid.

And for Windows - it tried making changes to be more "hip and cool and modern and AI" but in the end it's alright to use (while the AI integration is a controversial topic). It's funny to me that you can't normally install it on "older" hardware (read: we have contracts with hardware manufacturers, please give them money) so people started jumping to Linux. 
Thankfully Valve pushes SteamOS and we have great game Linux support.

# Back on track
Alright I drifted off the main topic. Thinkpads! They have one of the best laptop keyboards ever. The sound is satisfying, it's comfy, what do you need more here? And and the touchpad - chef's kiss! 
I've been wondering if I made a bad decision that I didn't go with a T480 because of changeable insides, but I couldn't find one with better processor. 

# The amazing conclusion

Tinkpads cool, tinkpads cute, tinkpads the best, get one for yourself!!!11!
